---
layout: post
title: "Day 3 — Learning Through the Process"
date: 2026-05-28
permalink: /day3.html
tags: ["Learning Through the Process"]

what_i_learned: |
 Today, we continued building our Python 101 foundation by learning about numbers, data types, variables, and input functions. I learned how different data types are used in coding and how variables help store and organize information inside a program. 
 We also downloaded and explored programs such as MATLAB, Anaconda, and R Studio, which are important tools used in research, machine learning, and data analysis. Throughout the day, we also participated in a Virtual Escape Room activity with our team, explored Figma for design and organization, and visited the research lab space. 
 Each activity introduced us to different parts of the research and technology process while helping us build teamwork, creativity, and technical skills.
blockers: |
  My blocker today was adjusting to the fast pace of transitioning between multiple activities because I learn best through repetition 
  and extended practice, especially when learning coding concepts like Python.

reflection: |
  Today was exciting, but I did get a little flustered at times because I learn best through repetition and consistent practice, especially when it comes to coding.    We moved from Python to Figma, then to the Escape Room, and later into the research lab, so it felt like a lot of information and transitions in one day. 
  Even though it was overwhelming at moments, I understand that the experience is designed to expose us to multiple areas of research and technology. 
  I know that with more practice and repetition, especially in Python, I will become more confident and comfortable with the material over time.
